# Inventory

The **equipment and items** menu lets you modify your equipment, C-button
items, and passive equipment items. There is also an option to set whether or
not the Giant's Knife has been broken, and whether or not the Biggoron's Sword
has been obtained. Pressing a bottle, trade item, or equipment item will bring
up an item wheel where you can select from the possible items for that slot.
Use the D-Pad left and right to cycle through the items, and the D-Pad up and
down to cycle three items at a time. Capacity equipment items (e.g. quiver,
bomb bag etc.) that are not normally obtainable without using cheats or
glitches are denoted with an asterisk.

The **quest items** menu lets you modify all items on the Quest Status screen,
as well as your energy and magic. There are also options to modify the dungeon
items and small key amount of a specified dungeon. **energy cap.**,
**defense**, **magic cap.**, and **heart pieces** are specified in hexadecimal
for simplicity (from here on denoted with an *h*). For energy capacity, 10h
corresponds to one heart container. The defense checkbox enables or disables
double defense damage reduction, and the field next to it modifies the number
of defense heart containers. For magic capacity, 0h is the normal capacity, 1h
is double magic, 2h is what would be triple magic etc. For heart pieces, 10h
corresponds to one heart piece.

The **amounts** menu lets you modify the ammo of your C-button items, your
magic and energy amount, number of hits left on Giant's Knife, and rupee
amount. The number of Giant's Knife hits left is what decides whether or not
the Giant's Knife / Biggoron's Sword appears to be broken when Link wields it.
Magic, energy, and Giant's Knife hits are specified in hexadecimal. 30h magic
is the max for normal magic capacity, and 60h is the max for double magic
capacity. For energy, 10h corresponds to one heart container. Though the
highest amount of rupees that can be specified is 99999, entering a value
greater than or equal to 65536 will wrap the amount around to zero and on.